Testing
=========

All of the algorithms are tested using random precomputed tests by a test generator written by me. It is available in the 'testing' folder. Also, some specific tests were done like "not found test", "found at begining test", "found at end test", "only one character haystack tests", etc. All in all to cover cases when things may go wrong if the algorithm is not implemented correctly. This actually helped since due to not a proper offset (+-1), the answer was not correct if the found substring was at the end.

Given the algorithms, different tests have been generated - either single answer or multi answer tests.

The single answer tests were generated by just creating a random string and getting a random substring in it.

The multi answer tests were generated by creating a random substring, getting a random number of occurances and then generating random substring of random length in between the substrings.

For example one possible test is:
vqtpazpawwwwpa
pa

which means that in the first string we are seaching for pa. You can see random junk substrings in between all 'pa' in the first string.

For all 4+ algorithms implemented so far. 17 tests have been run where it must be noted that this means 17 function runs. In all cases, there is one function using random generated tests which tests 14 random cases generated before that.

All 17 tests have been run in 2.5 seconds where as some strings are relatively big (10000-100000 characters probably - they are of random length). Also, this takes in the time taken to load the tests (read from file) and also some other computations like initializing and deleting an object. For example, every time a test for the suffix trie is done, then the suffix trie is generated and then deleted.

####Other ways to test
The z algorithm and the edit distance were tested online using online judges - Codeforces and SPOJ. Both algorithms passed the tests in a reasonable time. The problem with the edit distance was it scored 2 times poorer than my original solution which didn't use objects.

####Running tests
Tests can be run by running the command "sh run_tests.sh" when you are rnd the tests again, a new make file must be created in order to link different files and the main static library. This means that if the project gets updated additional work is needed for the shell scripts. To make sure that the tests are up-to-date, then it is best to load the tests projects using codeblocks, link the static library found in "Codeblocks project/bin/", compile and run. This also makes sure that you would be able to do changes so that you actually can compile it on your system if there are some differences like using a different compiler and having to change some stuff.
